# Open-Source-Paper

# This paper goes on to discuss the importance of open source software and the benefits. 


Open Source Paper 

The term open source has been talked about and gaining popularity since the 1850’s. Open source is important and consists of many important aspects, these can include; open source software, open source operating systems, open source website software, and open source development tools. This movement was mainly started when a man by the name of Richard Stallman, started he GNU operating system project in 1983. The main point of this essay will be to bring light to the importance of open source software. Open source software (OSS) is software that is available for use, modification and distributions with its original rights. Stallman was an early pioneer in this OSS movements and enforced the thought that software should be accessible to programmers. One important advantage of open source software is that it provides flexibility and agility within businesses. This allows for many business problems to be solved very quickly, enabling employees or other outside partners and people to develop possible software solutions that would’ve taken even longer for a software company to release updates for. If the software company was practicing OSS it would allow for many problems to be solved because there aren’t any negotiations, conditions or fees to try change, modify or improve their software for personal use. There could even be possible improvements made to the software from outside individuals which would benefit the company. Open source software is also a very effective way to save money for an enterprise. Many companies and enterprises could spend thousands implementing and testing new software features or modifications. This is where OSS can come into play by allowing outside programmers and individuals to modify the software code for improvements. This allows for the company to save money and possibly for the programmer to receive some kind of reward for the new software modifications or improvements. The reason open source software is cheaper is because it is developed by communities rather than single author or owner.  
Another important aspect of OSS is collaboration. The greatness that comes from open source is the community collaborations and peer review. Open source software is decentralized meaning that there isn’t one owner of the software and many different individuals are able to state their thoughts and opinions. The constants peer review and collaboration allows for features and aspects of the application being created to be agreed on. 
A popular open source program that is used by a multitude of professionals and students would be LibreOffice. LibreOffice offers much of the same functionality as Microsoft office, except for that it is free. This is a great example of open source software because the main focus is to provide for the people and not for profit and you are not require to have a licensing fee. This application is also cross-platform just as Microsoft Office, enabling you to still be able to move files from different types of operating systems. Another very useful application in the open source world would be GIMP. GIMP is an open source image and photo editing tool similar to Photoshop. A major advantage of GIMP is the fact that there is no licensing fee required. Photoshop requires a monthly subscription to use its product but GIMP still has many of the features available in Photoshop. The future outlook for open source applications and collaboration is extremely promising. The open source movement allows for developers to exchange ideas and code; this I believe will be the building blocks of open-source and as individuals start to take part in this movement, within the next 10 years there will be unimaginable progress and innovations in the realm of artificial intelligence and information technology. 
References


https://www.techradar.com/best/best-open-source-software
https://www.synopsys.com/glossary/what-is-open-source-software.html
https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2015/1/top-advantages-open-source-offers-over-proprietary-solutions

